---
layout: post
title: "Material Object Blog"
---
# Haoma in Zoroastrianism

Zoroastrianism is one of the oldest monotheistic religions, which centers around the prophet Zoroaster. Within Zoroastrianism, haoma is a sacred drink made of medicinal plants used in many traditions and rituals. It is made by those, and for those following Zoroastrian tradition. Haoma is a juice that is meant to be consumed daily. It was made for those to consume during a ritual called the Yasna ceremony. The Yasna ceremony is meant to purify the world, specifically healing over evil, and is held daily. During Yasna, the significance of the amount of haoma consumed is important. Those participating can only consume a few drops as it is considered harmful if too much is consumed. Zoroastrian tradition is about healing and opposes overconsumption. Haoma is made by extracting ephedra plant twigs, combining it with pomegranate leaves, adding water or milk and then smashing it all together to obtain the juice. The actual process of creating haoma using such materials is considered a part of the healing process. The materials are not to be consumed alone, but rather together in the mixture. Zoroastrian priests would carry the bundles of twigs and were seen as healers and were greatly respected as they performed the ritual of making haoma. However, anyone can obtain the materials, and create the juice during Yasna. There is no special means necessary, if one has all the materials one can create it. It is said to elicit healing properties and be very transformative within health and wellness. Specifically, the act of creating the haoma with the different materials is supposed to bring forth spiritual renewal. A mantra is supposed to be recited whilst the milk or water is added to the mixture. It is described as a very restoring healing experience, so it is assumed that esthetically it is a very beautiful sight and experience. Haoma is also consumed by mothers in childbirth, and to be consumed by the newborns as well. It is also to be consumed by any dying person, as it is considered to be an emblem of immortality. Which again, goes back to the idea of haoma having healing properties and being at the forefront of rituals and ceremony. Haoma is seen as a God as well as an offering to Ahura Mazda, the main God or entity within Zoroastrianism. Due to the fact that it can be gathered, organized, and created by anyone represents the fact that everyone has similar power and authority and at the end of the day is about the triumph over evil. The importance of haoma is even stated in the Avesta, the Zoroastrian sacred text. In conclusion, haoma is a very important symbol as well as a material object within Zoroastrianism that brings forth healing, is used in many rituals and traditions, and is viewed with utmost importance.




